In this video, we are going to take a
look at connecting to MySQL running
in the inside of a Docker Container. So
you can see, I have the Command Line up
here. If I do docker ps, just to see
what's running, you see that I have
nothing running at all. So, I'm going to
start up docker run. We'll give this a
container name and just call it jt-mysql.
I'm going to pass in an environment
variable. If you have questions about
these environment variables, the
documentation up on Docker Hub is very
good for this of the MySQL image.
I'm going to say MySQL. I'm saying MySQL_ROOT_PASSWORD equal to... I'm just going to
say password. It's just a real temporary
thing - d to run it in the background.
Then, I'm going to say mysql. By default,
by not providing a tag, it's going to
just grab the latest one. So now, go ahead
and hit enter. You can see that's going
to take a moment while it Docker goes up
and starts that. It's pulling down an
image, so that's telling me that this
image is being started up, or container I
should say, on the proper context. We can
see that the container is now up. I do a
docker ps. You can see that this is now
up and running. What we want to do
is basically get a bash shell inside of
that. So, you might consider SSH again but
we're actually using Docker Utilities to
connect in and and get a shell inside
that running container. So, that's what we
want to do to get to the command line of
running against MySQL. If you notice, I
did not expose a port here. So, this
container is running on my system. But
technically, you can't connect into MySQL
from the outside of the container.
So, let's go ahead and do that now, and do
docker exec -it
and what I want to do is the
container name. So, that's going to be jt-mysql. I'm going to say, I want to run
bash, so I'll do that, and now, you can see
whoami
root running inside of that. So,
what I want to do now is mysql --user
equals root. I'm going to do a -p so we can
pass in the password. Now, it's going to ask
me for that password, and now I am at the
MySQL command line. So, now I have
access to the command line of MySQL.
Let's take a look at help. At any
time, you can run help. You can see that,
technically, the commands here. You don't need
to terminate them with a semicolon, but
for SQL commands, you do. So, for the shell
commands, you do not. But for the SQL
commands, you do. So, let's take a look at
like status. We can see here that I
am connected. I'm connecting into MySQL
using a UNIX socket because I am running
inside of a Docker Container, which is a
flavor of Linux, that's running inside
there. So, it's going to be using sockets.
So, it's kind of a nice little feature there.
This gives us some basic information
about what's going on. So, let's go ahead
and and run some MySQL commands now.
One of them is, I can do show databases.
Like so, you can see that we have four
different databases running on this.
Let's take a look at the MySQL database
a little bit closer. I'm going to say
use mysql and now I need to do a
semicolon. That's going to terminate
the statement. And now, by default, I'm
going to be using the mysql database
inside of MySQL. So, a little bit
confusing about that, but is the name of
the database. I can do show tables,
and now, I can get a list of the tables
that are inside this database. So, this
tells me about everything that's there
now intuitively.
We just did show databases and then we
did show tables. If we want to get more
information about a table, you might be
tempted to try show in table name but
that's not going to work for you. But,
what we can do is describe user and we
can see that we get all the information
about the user table, so that does have a
bunch of rows on it. You can see up
here, I have the field, the type, whether
it's a allowed to be null, if there's a
key on it, default value, then additional
information under extra. What I'd like to
do now is let's select the host and user
from that. So, let's go ahead and do
select host comma user
from user, and I do need that semicolon
again. We can see that from
command-line, I'm now seeing that I have
a user called root available from any
host. That % sign means any host. and then,
there's two users in there. mysql.sys
and then local host root. So, SQL treats
user says host and user name. So, it's
kind of a unique user within MySQL.
It kind of little confusing at first
when you see how MySQL is treating user
accounts, because technically, the
wild-card root and local root are two
different accounts inside the MySQL
database. So, a little confusing.
Now the mysql.sys user there, the
middle row, that is a system account. You
should never. I don't know make sure if
you could try to sign in to it. I'm not
sure if MySQL will let you. But
effectively, you really don't have any
reason to ever sign in as that user
specifically. So, going on future in the
course, we will show you how to create
named user accounts, which is probably a
better habit, because once you get into a
production database, you definitely do
not want to be using the root user
account, because that could cause you
problems further down the road, because
this is a very powerful user account. So,
once you get to a database that you're
going to be using, like in production or
something, you will want to be using
named accounts
with the proper roles and authorities.
But that's something that we're going to
get it to further down in the course. Now,
the one last thing that we want to do is
be able to get out of this. If we want to
do help, you can see here that we have
the exit command and the quick command. I
will personally go back and forth. They
do the exact same thing, so don't worry
about which to use. There's really no
difference between them. For me, it's
really kind of which one I happen to
remember at the time I'm exiting the
MySQL command line. So, you just type exit.
That closes out to MySQL shell and you
can see that I am still in the container.
If I just do exit here, I am back at
the command line of my operating system.
So, I'm on my macbook pro now. I do a
docker ps. We can see that that MySQL
container is still running for us. So,
just real quickly, if you're in
the container at the MySQL prompt, just
do exit. That will exit you back to the
command line off the bash shell inside
of the container, and then do another
exit and you'll be out of the container.